(upbeat music)
(keyboard clicks)
Alright, so what is a data structure?
Well, a data structure organises and stores data.
For example, an array is a data structure.
The lowly array.
And we're gonna take a look at arrays
as a data structure very soon.
Now there are many different data structures,
and they differ from each other in the way
that they organise and store the data.
Arrays order the data sequentially,
and they place each value in its own slot.
We can get to a slot using an index.
That's different from a tree,
which is a hierarchical data structure
or some would say, abstract data type,
it's a little bit of a grey area when it comes to trees.
Trees have the notion of parents and children.
Now, each data structure has strengths and weaknesses.
They all do some things well and other things
not so well because if there was
a super data structure out there
that did everything fantastically well,
then we'd only need the one data structure
and everybody would be using it.
There's a reason that there are a lot of data structures.
For example, arrays are great for random access
when you know the index of the item you wanna access.
They're not so great when you don't know the index,
'cause then you have to search the dataset
to find what you're looking for.
Now here's a quote from Linus Torvalds, it says;
The fact is, there aren't just two sides to any issue,
there's almost always a range of responses,
and it depends is almost always the right answer
in any big question.
And if you don't know, Linus Torvalds
is the guy who invented Linux,
quite a well-known software engineer.
So why am I showing you this quote?
Well, because the answer to
what's the best data structure to use?
Is, it depends.
The best data structure will depend on
the data you wanna store,
how your application will need to access the data,
the operations your application will perform,
the most on the data,
and so there isn't one size fits all answer.
As a developer you'll have to decide
which data structure to use based
on your application's specific needs,
and that's why you're in this course,
I mean that's why it's important to learn about
and understand the different types of data structures,
what each one does well,
and what each one doesn't do so well.
Armed with that knowledge, you'll be able
to choose the best data structure
for your specific scenario,
because it's going to depend on what
you wanna do with the data and how often,
and so once again, congratulations on enrolling
in this course.
You'll be able to choose the best data structure
for your specific job and the code you write
will perform better because of that.
And so that's what a data structure is,
nothing terribly complicated,
a data structure organises and stores data.
And so let's move on and talk about
the other topic we'll be covering in this course,
and that's algorithms.
See you in the next video.